RHDEVDOCS-4169+4392: Tekton Hub and auth changes for Pipelines 1.8 (#48671)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-using-a-custom-database-in-tekton-hub.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-tekton-hub-with-openshift-pipelines.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="op-using-a-custom-database-in-tekton-hub_{context}"]
= Using a custom database in {tekton-hub}

[role="_abstract"]

> After installation of {tekton-hub} on a cluster, administrators can use a custom database instead of the default PostgreSQL database installed by the Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an administrator, after installing {tekton-hub} on a cluster, you can configure it use a custom database instead of the default PostgreSQL database installed by the Operator.
```

Reviewer: Can we express _why_ the user might want to do this? What's the benefit of, or use case for, making this change?

Reviewer: @PuneetPunamiya can you comment on WHY users might want to make this change?

Reviewer 2: It is because if user wants to use his database and not the default one provided by Hub then in that case user can use his database with `db-migration`, `api` and `ui` provided by Hub

[discrete]

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: We don't support this feature in 1.8

. Create a secret in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace with the following keys: 
* `host`
* `port`
* `username`
* `password`
* `database`

. In the `TektonHub` CR, set the value of the `databaseCredentials` attribute to the custom database secret.
+
.Example of custom categories 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonHub
metadata:
  name: hub
spec:
  databaseCredentials: myExternalDatabaseSecret
----

> . Migrate data from the default database to the custom database.

Reviewer 2: We don't have this feature in 1.8

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ 

Reviewer: @PuneetPunamiya what is the command here?

Reviewer 2: We don't provide that feature to migrate the data up till now

----

. Delete the default database.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc delete 

Reviewer: @PuneetPunamiya what is the command here?

Reviewer 2: If the user is not using the default database and is using his own database then the default database is deleted by the operator itself, user don't need to delete the database in that case

> // This module is included in the following assembly:

Reviewer 3: I am not sure about this part. @PuneetPunamiya can you review this part please?

//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-tekton-hub-with-openshift-pipelines.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="using-a-custom-database-in-tekton-hub_{context}"]

> = Optional:Using a custom database in {tekton-hub}

Reviewer 4: Needs a space here  Optional: Using

* `POSTGRES_HOST`
* `POSTGRES_DB`
* `POSTGRES_USER`
* `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`
* `POSTGRES_PORT`
+
.Example: Custom database secrets
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tekton-hub-db
  labels:
    app: tekton-hub-db
type: Opaque
stringData:
  POSTGRES_HOST: <The name of the host of the database>
  POSTGRES_DB: <Name of the database>
  POSTGRES_USER: <The name of user account>
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <The password of user account>
  POSTGRES_PORT: <The port that the database is listening on>
...
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The default target namespace is `openshift-pipelines`.
====

. In the `TektonHub` CR, set the value of the database secret attribute to `tekton-hub-db`.
+
.Example: Adding custom database secret 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonHub
metadata:
  name: hub
spec:
  targetNamespace: openshift-pipelines
  db:                      
    secret: tekton-hub-db 
  api:
    hubConfigUrl: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tektoncd/hub/main/config.yaml
    catalogRefreshInterval: 30m
...
----

. Apply the updated `TektonHub` CR.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <tekton-hub-cr>.yaml
----

> . Migrate data from the default database to the custom database.

Reviewer 2: This part we have not implemented yet in 1.8 and also in 1.9
So may be we can remove this line

> After successful migration, the Operator automatically deletes the default database.

Reviewer 2: So not after successful migration, once the secret is created by the user and when the cr is applied we delete the default database, so may be we can change it to 

Once the CR is applied with the user's database secret and if user has already installed Tekton Hub with default database before, then in that case default database will be deleted and other Tekton Hub services will be connected to user's custom database

kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tekton-hub-db
  labels:
    app: tekton-hub-db
type: Opaque
stringData:
  POSTGRES_HOST: <The name of the host of the database>
  POSTGRES_DB: <Name of the database>
  POSTGRES_USER: <The name of user account>
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <The password of user account>
  POSTGRES_PORT: <The port that the database is listening on>
...
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The default target namespace is `openshift-pipelines`.
====

. In the `TektonHub` CR, set the value of the database secret attribute to `tekton-hub-db`.
+
.Example: Adding custom database secret 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonHub
metadata:
  name: hub
spec:
  targetNamespace: openshift-pipelines
  db:                      
    secret: tekton-hub-db 
  api:
    hubConfigUrl: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tektoncd/hub/main/config.yaml
    catalogRefreshInterval: 30m
...
----

. Use the updated `TektonHub` CR to associate the custom database with {tekton-hub}.

.. If you are associating the custom database at the time of installing {tekton-hub} on your cluster, apply the updated `TektonHub` CR.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <tekton-hub-cr>.yaml
----

> .. Alternatively, if you are associating the custome database after the installation of {tekton-hub} is complete, replace the existing `TektonHub` CR with the updated `TektonHub` CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Alternatively, if you are associating the custom database after the installation of {tekton-hub} is complete, replace the existing `TektonHub` CR with the updated `TektonHub` CR.
```
